The EMACS editor
----------------

If you are not familiar with the unix "vi" editor, you may find it easier to
use EMACS.

To use EMACS, simply type "emacs" followed by the name of the file you wish to
create or edit.  To allow you to continue using the window from which you
started emacs, invoke emacs with "emacs &" instead of "emacs".  EMACS has
fairly good built-in help, which may be accessed by typing Ctrl-H.  After
typing Ctrl-H, type "?" for a list of options, or "t" to enter the EMACS
tutorial.

The cursor (arrow) keys and the delete key do the expected things. To exit
EMACS, type Ctrl-x, followed by Ctrl-c.  If the file has changed, you will
be prompted to save the file.

Other useful commands are:

	Ctrl-space or Ctrl-@		Sets a mark to mark a block of text
	Ctrl-w				Kills (cuts) the nextblock of text
					  between the mark and the current
					  cursor position
	Ctrl-k				Kills the text from the cursor to
					  the end of the line
	Ctrl-y				Yanks (pastes) the most recently cut
					  block of text, putting it at the
					  current cursor position
	Ctrl-d				Deletes the next character
	Ctrl-g				Aborts a command in progress
        Ctrl-x, then Ctrl-f             Switch to another file for editing
                                        (it prompts for file name)
        Ctrl-x, then Ctrl-s             Save a file without exiting
        Ctrl-v                          Page forward
        Esc v                           Page back
        Esc q                           Fill (reformat) paragraph
	ESC x				Allows you to enter a command by
					  spelling it out (typing a space
					  will complete a non-ambigous
					  partial command)
       Ctrl-x, then 1                   Gets rid of other windows

Useful commands to spell out:
        auto-fill-mode                  Toggles fill mode (word wrap) on/off

Some EMACS tricks:

You may move the emacs cursor to a given place on the screen by moving the
mouse cursor to that spot and clicking the left button.

To move a block of text, use Ctrl-space to mark the beginning, move the
cursor to the end of the block, use Ctrl-w to cut it out, move the cursor to
the place where it should be inserted, and use Ctrl-y to yank it back at
that location.  To copy instead of move, perform the same procedure, but
also use Ctrl-y to yank the text back at the spot from which it was cut.

To cut and paste between different files, cut the text as described above,
then use the sequence Ctrl-x, Ctrl-f to change to another file and paste the
text in with Ctrl-y.

Put emacs setup commands in the .emacs file on the main directory.
For example to set up Ctrl-x Ctrl-l to be goto-line enter
     (global-set-key "\C-x\C-l" 'goto-line)

It is likely that your account may be set up with a default .emacs file
that you can customize.  (By editing with emacs, of course!)

