Routine Name:	create

Description:	Creates new element of specified element type.

Usage:		create element-type name -autoindex [object-specific-options]

		element-type	type of element; must be one of the valid
				element types (objects) compiled into the
				genesis executable, or an extended object
				created with the GENESIS scripting language.

		name		element or path name where new element is to
				be attached in the GENESIS element hierarchy;
				if single name is given (i.e., no path
				separators "/"), element is created on the
				current working element [also can be indexed;
				see below]

		-autoindex	automatically assigns the first free element
		                index to the newly created element.

		[options]	some elements can be created with additional
				options which are specific to the object type
				(see individual object documentation for
				options)

Example:	create neutral /cell
		create compartment /cell/soma
		create xgraph voltage_plot

Notes:		The create routine is used to create new elements in the
		GENESIS element tree.  It generates an element of type
		"element-type" and places it in the element tree with the
		assigned name.

		The additional options which can be specified for the create
		routine depend on the element-type being created.  For
		example, elements which represent graphical widgets contain
		data fields for screen information such as the position and
		dimensions of the graphical object. This information may
		also be specified as an option in the creation of an element.

		    create compartment soma[0]
		    create compartment soma[1]
		    create compartment soma[10]
		    create compartment soma -autoindex

		In the example above, he name field of each element will be
		"soma" but the index fields will have values 0-2 and 10.
		The "-autoindex" option in the last statement creates the
		element with index 2.  Note that soma and soma[0] are
		equivalent i.e. the absence of an index implies an index of
		0 (the default).  Also note that the index is an arbitrary
		value and does not need to follow any order.

See also:	listobjects, showobject, le

