Routine Name:   initparamBF

Description:    Initializes a number of fields involving a single parameter
                for the paramtableBF object.

Usage:          initparamBF path param type range center label

                path:   The location of the parameter search object in
                        the element hierarchy.

                param:  The numerical index of the parameter whose ranges
                        etc. are to be set.

                type:   The type of the parameter; 0 = additive,
                        1 = multiplicative.

                range:  The range of the parameter.  For additive
                        parameters, this is a maximum offset from the
                        center value; for multiplicative parameters, it's
                        a maximum scaling factor.  In other words, for
                        additive parameters the full parameter range is
                        [center - range, center + range] while for
                        multiplicative parameters it's equal to
                        [center / range, center * range].  The range
                        value must be >= 0.

                center: The original value of the parameter, which is also
                        the center of the range to be searched over.

                label:  A string which is the name of the parameter.  This
                        is useful for identifying the parameter in a text
                        file output by the SAVEBEST or DISPLAY actions.


Return value:   int; 0 for failure and 1 for success.

Examples:           initparamBF /BF_object  0  1  2.0  1.0  "Na Gbar"

                This sets parameter 0 to be a multiplicative parameter
                (type 1) with a range of 2.0 (from 0.5 to 2.0 times the
                center value) with a center value of 1.0.  The label
                indicates that this parameter represents the maximum
                conductance of a sodium channel.  The label is just for
                reference and has no effect on the search process.

Notes:          This routine (and the other initparamXX routines) are
                shortcuts to set a number of parameter-related fields
                simultaneously.  All of these fields can also be set
                manually, but it's usually much more convenient to use
                these functions.

See also:       Parameter Search (Param), Paramtable, paramtableBF
