	Piriform : Neural simulation of piriform cortex
	Tutorial version 2.0

		Developed by Matt Wilson 1988
		Embellished with graphical interface by Alex Protopapas, 1995
		Documentation and conversion to GENESIS 2.0 by Alex Protopapas
		California Institute of Technology,
			Written under Genesis/Xodus


1	INTRODUCTION.

	The piriform cortex is a three layered cortical area which receives
its input from the olfactory bulb and makes connections with the
olfactory bulb, entorhinal cortex, olfactory tubercle, superior
colliculus, peri-amygdaloid cortex, endopiriform nucleus, thalamus, as
well as neocortical areas.  It is unique among cortical sensory areas
in that its afferent input does not pass through the thalamus first.  Unlike
the six layered neocortex found in mammals, it has only three layers
(as does the hippocampus) and is believed to be phylogenetically
older.  The principal neuron of the olfactory cortex is the pyramidal
cell which receives afferent input from the bulb and makes connections
with other local and distant pyramidal cells within the piriform 
cortex.  A number of inhibitory neurons also exist which act on the proximal 
and distal dendrites of the pyramidal cells.  Because of the presence of dense 
intrinsic connections (reminiscent of some abstract neural network models), 
and the presence of LTP, some researchers have suggested that piriform
cortex may act as an associative memory.

	This simulation was originally constructed by Matt Wilson in an effort
to realistically model the activity and computational capacity of olfactory
(or piriform) cortex.  Although the original simulation was used to model a
wide variety of cortical behavior (memory, current source density
results, etc), this tutorial has been simplified for the sake of computational
speed and pedagogical ease. In it's current state, the simulation can
be used to study the basis of EEG patterns found experimentally.

	The simulation consists of 135 pyramidal cells, 135 feedforward
inhibitory cells (K mediated inhibition), and 135 feedback inhibitory cells
(Cl mediated inhibition) all in a 15 x 9 array.  The pyramidal cells consist 
of five compartments where each compartment receives a distinct kind of 
synaptic input and is located in a different sublayer of the cortex.  The 
inhibitory cells are modeled with only one compartment.  Input from the bulb 
is modeled as random activity entering the cortex via the lateral olfactory 
tract(LOT) in much the same way it does in the biological system.  Connections 
between the bulb and cortex are shown below:

   ROSTRAL                 					CAUDAL
					_________________________
					|		   	|
					|			|
					|     piriform cortex	|
					|			|
					|_______________________|
					    |   |   |   |   |	
       _________________		    |   |   |   |   |     LOT
      (			|		    |   |   |   |   |  collaterals
     (	olfactory bulb	|------------------------------------
      (_________________|     LOT

In the biological system there is also extensive feedback from the piriform
cortex to the olfactory bulb; however, this is not modeled here.  For 
connectivity within the cortex, see the menu window when you load the 
simulation into genesis.


2	GETTING STARTED

	After reading the introduction, type "genesis Piriform."  You should
see a large colorful menu window appear in the upper left hand corner of your
screen.  Press the help button at the bottom of the window.  The help window
contains the same text that you are reading now.

	The menu window contains the neural circuit diagram on which the 
model is based.  To interpret the graphical symbols used in the menu window,
press the legend button at the bottom of the help window.   You may notice
that the different segements of the pyramidal cell are labeled with Roman
numerals (Ia, III, etc.).  The numerals correspond to the layer of the
piriform cortex in which the segment is found, with layer I being at the
surface of the cortex and layer III in deep cortex.  


2.1	Simulating Data

	The simulation can operate in two modes: SIMULATE and PLAYBACK.  To 
make sure you are in SIMULATE mode, check the toggle (looks just like a 
button) on the lower left corner of the menu window.  If it reads SIMULATE,
you are already in SIMULATE mode.  If it reads PLAYBACK, press the toggle 
so that it reads SIMULATE.  Now press the "simulate" button next to the mode 
toggle.  A window titled "simulate" should appear over the button with the 
same name.  The first field in this window is "step size (msec)".  As its 
name implies, this field controls the simulation step size.  The default is 
set at .1 msec of simulation time.  Increasing the step size too much will 
reduce the accuracy of your data but will speed up running time.  Conversely, 
decreasing step size should increase accuracy at the expense of run time.
A decision regarding step size should be based on the speed of your computer
and the desire for accuracy.  "simulation duration" and "data directory name"
should be self explanatory.  The field "output rate (msec)" controls the
rate at which data is written to the disk.  The default setting of 1.0 
indicates that data will be written every 1.0 msec of simulated time.

			   ***IMPORTANT***

        In order to create the data files, you will have to be in
a directory for which you have "write" permission.  You must also copy
the file "test_dir" from the tutorial directory to the directory where
you will be storing your data.  To do this from the tutorial
directory, type: "cp test_dir [your directory]" .  Now go to the
window where you are running GENESIS and type: "cd [your directory]" .
All of this must be done BEFORE you press the "start simulation"
button.

	To begin the simulation, press "reset" and then "start simulation".  
If you wish to stop the simulation at any point, press "stop".  To continue, 
press "continue simulation".  If you wish to start a new simulation in which
you will store data to a different directory, use the "start simulation"
option rather that "continue simulation".  Because of the size of the 
simulation, it takes quite some time to run.  You can find out how much of the
simulation is completed by pressing "simulation status".  The data you are now
generating will be stored to a subdirectory called "default." 

	The time it takes to complete the simulation can vary tremendously 
depending on the speed of your machine.  Simulating 500 msec of data will
take only 5 minutes on a SPARC 10 but will take 20 minutes on a Sun IPC.
To determine how long it takes to complete the simulation, look at the 
window from which you are running genesis, it should list a real time 
START TIME and END TIME after the simulation is complete.

	There are two classes of parameters that you can change in this model,
synaptic weight and synaptic channel open time.  You can change the current 
settings by clicking on the synapses in the menu window.  To see how this
works, click on the synapse coming from the feedback inhibitory cell (fb). 
A window titled "fb to pyr synapse" should pop up.  Change the "fb_pyr" field
from "1.0" to "0.5".  Now go to the "simulate" window and type
"fb_pyr_0.5" in the "data directory name" field.  Click on "reset"
then "start simulation" to begin the simulation.


2.2  	Playing back simulation results.

	If you wish to see your results, you must change to PLAYBACK mode.  To
do this go to the mode toggle in the lower left corner of the menu window
and click on it so that it reads "PLAYBACK".  Now you must decide what it is
you wish to look at.  

	If you wish to look at field potentials (including eeg's), then click 
on the "field potential" button in the upper right corner of the menu window. 
This should display a window consisting of a number of toggles and buttons.  
The toggles located under the "fp's generated by synaptic currents" label 
allow you to display the field potentials generated by individual synaptic 
currents.  If you click onto more than one toggle this will add the clicked 
potentials together.  For example, click on "supIb" and "deepIb", then click on
"display."  Then display the full eeg by clicking on "eeg".

	Below the button labeled "field potential" is one labeled "spike
count".  Click on this and then click on "pyramidal" on the window that comes
up.  The spike count graph plots the number of spikes that occur over the
entire network over time.  You can choose to count the spikes of pyramidal,
feedback inhibitory, or feedforward inhibitory cells.  This is useful in
determining how the activity of a particular cell class correlates to the
eeg pattern.  

	Underneath the "spike count" is a button labeled "full cell view".
After clicking on it, you should notice a "parameter" and "row" field on the
window which comes up.  The "full cell view" option permits you to view an
animation of the activity in a row of cells in the network.  You can view
three "parameters" with this option: membrane potential (Vm), transmembrane
current (Im), and synaptic conductance (Gk).  The "row" field specifies the
row of cells you can look at.  Now press "display" without changing the 
default values for the fields.  In the upper right corner of the screen, you
should see a window containing 15 vertical rows.  Each row represents a single
cell in the network.  Each row consists of five cellular compartments, 
oriented apical (top) to basal (bottom).

	In order to display results concerning single compartments, you must
click on the buttons inside the pyramidal cell.  Go to the "supIb" button and 
click.  Now click on "network view" on the "supIb_options" window.  The
"network view" option allows you to display an animation of network activity
as if you were looking along the axis running perpendicular to the surface 
of the simulated brain.  Whenever you choose the "network view" option you
are only looking at an array of single compartments from all the pyramidal
cells in the simulation.  In this case, for example, you are only looking
at the supIb compartments.  You have three options in the
"supIb_network" window: Vm (membrane potential), Im (transmembrane
current), and synaptic conductance.  Click on "synaptic conductance
(Na), then on the cancel button below it.  An array of 15x9 rectangles
should appear on the right side of the screen.  Each rectangle
represents a single compartment.  Go back to the "supIb_options"
window and click onto "total synaptic conductance (Na)".  This should
generate a graph which measures the summed synaptic conductance over 
the entire network.  Although this is a measure which is unrealistic from the 
perspective of the physiologist, it gives us an idea of how active a synaptic
system is at any given time.  A similar range of options exist for the other
compartments and also for the feedforward and feedback interneurons.  The only
difference in network viewing for the inhibitory cells is that there is no
"Im" option.

	Finally, we are ready to display the results of our simulation.  Click
on the "playback" button.  The playback window contains four fields: "clock"
which measures playback time in msec of simulated time, "playback step size"
sets the rate at which data is displayed (the larger the step size the faster
, but also choppier, the display), "playback duration", and "data directory"
which are both self-explanatory.  To begin playback, click "reset" then
"run" and watch the fun begin.  If you feel you need to get another look at
things, click on "reset" and "run" again.  The "step" button allows you to
execute playback one step at a time. 

	This simulation also allows you to view data from two different 
data directories simultaneously.  This is useful for comparing simulation
results before and after some set of parameters has been changed.  In 
section 2.1 we generated two sets of data.  The first used the default 
settings for the parameters and the second halved the input to the pyramidal 
cell from the feedback inhibitory cell.  To compare eeg responses from
these two simulation runs, cancel all the display windows on the left side
of the screen.  Now go to the "playback" window and enter "default" in the 
"data directory" field.  If you recall, this directory contains the results
from the simulation with the default parameters.  Now pop up a an eeg display
and a spike count for pyramidal cells.  Go back to the "playback" window and
type "fb_pyr_0.5" in the "data directory" field.  This directory contains results
from the simulation in which we halved the input from the feedback inhibitory
cell.  Now display another eeg and pyramidal spike count window.  You may 
notice that the titles of these windows differ from the previous ones in that
they end with ".fb_pyr_0.5" instead of ".default".  In general, the directory which 
contains the displayed data appears following the dot in the window title.
Now playback the results and note the differences.  How are things different?
Can you make any speculations about why they might be different?  If not,
try displaying some other relevant data which might help give you some more
insight.

	For more information about this simulation, see the chapter
"Dynamical Properties of Cerebral Cortical Networks" in The Book of 
GENESIS.   

3	Glossary

	Im 	transmembrane current
	Vm 	membrane potential
	Gk	conductance
	pyr	pyramidal cell
	ff	feedforward inhibitory cell (inhibition is K mediated)
	fb	feedback inhibitory cell (inhibition is Cl mediated)

	Layers in Piriform Cortex:

		Ia	most superficial layer in the piriform cortex, this 
			is also the layer where afferent fibers and input 
			from ff's forms synapses on the pyramidal cell
		supIb   just deep of Ia, where association fibers from rostral
		  	pyramidal cells synapse onto other pyramidal cells
		deepIb	just deep of supIb, where association fibers from 
			caudal pyramidal cells synapse onto other
			pyramidal cells
		II	just deep of deepIb, this layer contains the cell 
			bodies of the superficial pyramidal cells, the somata 
			of the pyramidal cells in the model receive input 
			from fb's.
		III	just deep of II, this is the deepest layer in 
			olfactory cortex and is the site of connections 
			between local pyramidal cells, this layer also 
			contains the somata of deep pyramidal cells.
  


REFERENCES

Wilson, M. and Bower, J.M. 1992, Simulating cerebral cortical networks:
    oscillations and temporal interactions in a computer simulation of
    piriform (olfactory) cortex.  J. Neurophysiol.  67: 981-995.

Wilson, M. (1990) CIT Thesis, Ph.D. thesis, California Institute of
    Technology, Pasadena.

Wilson, M. and Bower, J.M. 1989, The Simulation of Large-Scale Neural
    Networks, in Methods in Neuronal Modeling, Chapter 9, edited by C. Koch
    and I.  Segev, MIT Press.

Wilson, M. and Bower, J.M. 1988, A Computer Simulation of Olfactory Cortex
    with Functional Implications for Storage and Retrieval of Olfactory
    Information, in Neural Information Processing Systems, edited by
    D. Anderson, American Institute of Physics.



TO LEARN MORE ABOUT THE PIRIFORM CORTEX:

Haberly, L. B. 1990, Olfactory Cortex, in The Synaptic Organization of
    the Brain, edited by Gordon Shepherd, Oxford University Press.



TO LEARN MORE ABOUT THE TUTORIAL

See chapter 9 of the Book of GENESIS.
